
The Merchant Financial Agent: A Context-Aware AI Proposal Leveraging Model Context Protocol and Function Calling for SMB Financial Automation









PREPARED BY:









ACRONYMS

Acronym
Description
LLM
Large Language Model
MCP
Model Context Protocol
FC
Function Calling (Tool Use)
SMB
Small-to-Medium Business
RAG
Retrieval Augmented Generation
CRUD
Create, Read, Update, Delete
ETL
Extract, Transform, Load
JSON-RPC
JavaScript Object Notation Remote Procedure Call (MCP Transport Layer)
FX
Foreign Exchange
ITSM
IT Service Management






ABSTRACT

This project proposes the development of the Merchant Financial Agent (MFA), an autonomous, context-aware AI solution engineered to address operational fragmentation and decision latency for Small-to-Medium Businesses (SMBs). The MFA is designed to securely unify three critical business domains: proprietary historical transaction data, external scheduling systems (Google Calendar), and real-time market informatics (currency exchange rates). This integration allows the agent to deliver automated, query-based financial reporting, real-time currency conversion, and proactive event management.
The core architecture utilizes a hybrid approach to ensure both reliability and scalability. Function Calling (FC) serves as the high-fidelity intent generation layer, reliably converting the merchant's natural language requests into structured JSON commands with precise arguments. The Model Context Protocol (MCP) then functions as the standardized execution and orchestration layer, ensuring persistent conversational context maintenance and reliable, multi-step tool chaining across the integrated external services.
A dedicated, enterprise-grade persistence layer, designed for high security and auditable history, will store all transaction and event data, providing the foundation for complex financial reporting and rigorous data governance.1 This layer is strictly isolated from the LLM core by an MCP server, establishing a secure RAG barrier. The project requires a significant investment, aligning with the costs of developing an autonomous, context-aware agent capable of high-reliability, multi-step task execution in a highly regulated financial context.3 Successful implementation is projected to yield a substantial return on investment through improved operational efficiency and reduced audit exposure.








1. INTRODUCTION


1.1 Background: The Burden of Manual Financial Management on General Merchants

Small-to-Medium Businesses (SMBs), particularly general merchants, operate under intense pressure to maintain optimal cash flow and adhere to strict regulatory deadlines. The current operational landscape is characterized by severe fragmentation, where critical financial data, market insights, and scheduling demands reside in disparate systems—spreadsheets, separate banking portals, and calendar applications. This fragmentation necessitates manual transposition, cross-referencing, and synthesis, resulting in significant administrative overhead and increased potential for human error.
The motivation for this project is to fill a critical gap by providing an intelligent, unified interface that minimizes this administrative burden and fundamentally transforms the merchant's financial posture. The goal is to evolve the process from reactive tracking—simply recording what has already occurred—to proactive financial strategy by making data immediately discoverable and actionable within a secure, conversational environment.1
The intrinsic value proposition of the Merchant Financial Agent (MFA) lies not merely in information retrieval, but in the automation of complex, multi-domain tasks within a single, continuous conversation. For instance, a merchant may require simultaneous analysis of historical financial data, scheduling of a future deadline, and conversion of a real-time foreign currency amount. Managing these tasks manually necessitates frequent context switching across multiple applications, which is a key productivity inhibitor for SMB owners. The MFA’s architecture is specifically designed to eliminate this friction point by unifying these domains under a single, autonomous agent capable of reliably executing a sequence of actions.

1.2 The Existing System: Fragmented Data and Reactive Decisions

The methods and techniques currently used by general merchants to manage their finances are predominantly manual and siloed. Financial transaction records often reside in basic accounting software or proprietary spreadsheets, while important business deadlines—such as tax payment dates, large invoice due dates, or loan repayment schedules—are sequestered in separate calendar applications.
A significant weakness of the existing ecosystem is the pervasive lack of persistent, secure memory accessible through a unified conversational layer. Consequently, complex financial analysis, such such as generating historical reports spanning multiple quarters, requires extensive, non-trivial data manipulation and consolidation. Furthermore, the absence of automated integration between financial triggers and scheduling systems forces merchants to manually transpose financial deadlines into their calendars, substantially increasing the probability of missed events, penalties, or suboptimal cash flow management. This reliance on fragmented tools leads to reactive decision-making, where the merchant addresses problems only after they manifest, rather than proactively managing risks.

1.3 Statement of the Problem: Bridging Operational Data Silos with Actionable Intelligence

The fundamental problem addressed by this proposal is the severe limitation on a merchant’s capacity for rapid, informed financial decision-making due to the absence of a secure, unified, and conversationally accessible platform that bridges transactional history, real-time market data, and critical scheduling information. Without an autonomous agent to orchestrate these complex interactions, merchants face operational inefficiencies that directly impact profitability and compliance.
The impact of this problem is quantifiable: fragmented data systems lead to delays in generating necessary insights, which increases administrative costs associated with manual data handling. Moreover, poor data discoverability and lack of governance heighten audit exposure.1
The following table summarizes the scope and impact of the problem this project seeks to solve, highlighting the substantial benefits derived from the proposed solution.
Table: Statement of the Problem Matrix

Element
Description
The problem of...
Operational inefficiencies resulting from fragmented data systems (transactions, calendars, market rates) and the absence of a context-aware, autonomous AI agent to unify these domains.
Affects...
General Merchants, SMB owners, and financial operations staff.
And results in...
Delayed insights, increased administrative costs, heightened audit exposure, and reactive, suboptimal cash flow management.1
Benefits of a solution...
Automated generation of complex financial reports, proactive management of key deadlines via integrated calendar, and immediate real-time FX conversion, leading to a projected productivity improvement of 20–30%.4
The ability to unify these data streams under an intelligent agent is expected to automate up to 60% of repetitive tasks and boost workforce productivity by 20–30% through the use of an AI-ready data architecture interoperable with Agents.4

1.4 Objective of the Project
1.4.1 General Objective
The general objective is to deliver a reliable, enterprise-grade Autonomous Financial Assistant AI Agent (MFA) that significantly improves merchant financial productivity through secure, context-aware automation of reporting, scheduling, and real-time data lookup. The successful agent must operate with the high reliability and consistency expected of financial software.

1.4.2 Specific Objectives

    1. Design and implement a secure persistence architecture that supports complex aggregation queries for financial reporting and ensures compliance with financial data governance standards, including data encryption and audit trails.1
    2. Develop a high-reliability Function Calling (FC) layer capable of achieving an accuracy of ≥95% in translating natural language financial and scheduling requests into structured JSON calls.
    3. Implement the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Orchestration layer to manage tool discovery, standardize result formatting, and reliably execute secure, multi-step workflows across external services (FinancialDB Adapter, Google Calendar Server, Currency Service).5
    4. Ensure end-to-end security, including rigorous separation of the LLM core from the proprietary database access and secure OAuth 2.0 integration for the Google Calendar API.7

1.5 Proposed System: The Contextual Agent Framework

The proposed system centers on an LLM-driven conversational agent, which functions as the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Host. This agent manages the user interface and the conversational state. The LLM, acting as the centralized intelligence, generates structured action requests via Function Calling.
Instead of executing these actions internally or via one-off APIs, the MCP Host connects to three distinct, specialized MCP Servers (also known as smart adapters).5 This architecture provides crucial advantages:
    1. Modularity and Governance: Complex, domain-specific tasks—like querying a secured financial database, executing a Google Calendar event, or fetching real-time FX rates—are offloaded to specialized servers.
    2. Security: The sensitive components (database credentials, API keys) are contained within the MCP Servers, which act as secure gateways. The LLM core itself never handles sensitive authentication or raw execution logic.8
    3. Standardization: MCP standardizes the request and response format across all tools, ensuring that the results from the various servers are immediately usable by the LLM as context for its next decision or action, enabling seamless tool chaining.
The three primary MCP servers proposed are the FinancialDB Adapter, the Google Calendar Server, and the Currency Service.

1.6 Feasibility Study
1.6.1. Technical Feasibility

The technical components required for this project are feasible using established, mature technologies. Function Calling (FC) is a well-refined technique utilized by leading Large Language Models (LLMs) to reliably convert natural language into structured JSON objects, effectively serving as a high-fidelity intent generator.11 Furthermore, the Model Context Protocol (MCP) provides a standardized, open-source solution for tool orchestration and persistent state management, allowing for reliable chaining of actions in complex workflows.5 Robust, well-documented APIs are available for all external services, including Google Calendar (supported by toolkits like LangChain) and reliable, commercially licensed Foreign Exchange (FX) rate providers.The integration of FC and MCP creates a predictable pathway for real-world interaction, mitigating the inherent non-deterministic behavior of the LLM core.
1.6.2. Schedule Feasibility
The project schedule, spanning 17 weeks for the Minimum Viable Product (MVP), is considered feasible. The timeline is conditioned on a phased development approach where initial focus is dedicated to establishing the secure persistence architecture and the robust core MCP/FC communication layer. This prioritization ensures that the foundational elements necessary for data integrity and reliable execution are established before focusing on peripheral features and final tuning.
1.7 Scope
The following defines what the Merchant Financial Agent project will and will not deliver, clarifying the level of ambition to avoid future scope creep.
In-Scope Deliverables:
    • Secure ETL and persistent storage infrastructure for merchant transaction data and business events.
    • Query-based financial reporting capabilities (e.g., revenue summaries, expense categorization, profit/loss over a specified time frame).
    • Google Calendar event management supporting CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations.
    • Real-time Foreign Exchange (FX) rate lookup capability via external API.
    • Development of the Hybrid MCP/FC architecture for seamless conversational flow and multi-step task chaining.
Out-of-Scope Deliverables:
    • Automated tax calculation, filing, or certified financial advice.
    • Direct access to or execution of funds transfers, banking payments, or payroll operations.
    • Development of complex machine learning forecasting models beyond simple historical aggregation and calculation reporting.
1.8 Methodology
The project will employ an Agile/Iterative methodology, emphasizing frequent internal validation and responsiveness to feedback, particularly regarding the security and accuracy of financial data handling.
The initial stages will focus on defining security and compliance requirements as core constraints. Requirement elicitation will be achieved through structured interviews with anchor merchants and the distribution of detailed questionnaires (N=50) to ensure a complete understanding of necessary financial report parameters and scheduling specificities.15
The subsequent design phase will focus on architectural resilience, prioritizing maintainability (via modular MCP servers) and security (via shielded database access). Implementation will leverage Python 3.10+ and established LLM frameworks, focusing on building three distinct MCP server applications.
A rigorous testing strategy will follow, including dedicated reliability testing for Function Calling accuracy and crucial chaining integrity testing to ensure the MCP successfully maintains context across multi-step transactions. This layered approach ensures that the project team knows precisely what is required and how to solve the problem.

2. ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN: THE CONTEXTUAL AGENT FRAMEWORK
2.1 Agent Core Capabilities and User Stories
The proposed architecture is specifically engineered to support complex, multi-step tasks that require chaining external tool actions. The crucial value derived from this architectural sophistication is the ability to query the internal financial database, utilize that result to identify a critical operational requirement, and then proactively schedule a corresponding event via the Google Calendar API, all within a single user request. This functionality elevates the agent from a simple question-answering system to a system capable of complex workflow automation, justifying the overhead of the Model Context Protocol.
The following table maps key user requirements to the necessary architectural components and demonstrates the agent’s ability to handle dependencies and execute chained operations.
Table: User Stories and Agent Actions Mapping
User Story Category
Merchant Request Example
Required Agent Action / Tool
Persistence Dependency
Orchestration Type
Financial Reporting
"Generate the revenue report for Q2 last month and summarize top spending categories."
FinancialReporter.generate_summary(timeframe='Q2 2023', categories=True)
High (Transaction Data)
FC → MCP (DB Query)
Event Management
"Schedule a follow-up call with the supplier regarding the overdue invoice due next week."
CalendarManager.calendar_create_detailed_event(date='next week', title='Supplier Call')
Medium (Event Data/API)
FC → MCP (Google API)
Real-Time Finance
"How much is 5,000 AUD worth in Birr right now?"
FXConverter.get_live_fx_rate(amount=5000, base='AUD', target='EUR')
Low (Real-time API)
FC → MCP (FX API)
Multi-Step Task
"Show me last month's net income, and schedule a reminder to review it with my accountant next Tuesday."
FinancialReporter.get_income() → MCP Context Injection → CalendarManager.calendar_create_event()
High
Chained FC calls via MCP State

2.2 The Persistent Memory Layer: Financial Data Governance

The requirement for the agent to generate historical reports and maintain conversational context necessitates robust and persistent storage of user financial data and event history [User Query].
2.2.1 Data Architecture for Transaction and Event History
A secure, enterprise-grade relational database (e.g., PostgreSQL or a similar SQL system) will be used to ensure transactional integrity and auditable history. This choice mandates adherence to financial governance best practices. Specifically, the data architecture will employ an immutable, ledger-based design. Rather than storing a mutable
Balance field prone to synchronization errors, the system will calculate current balances dynamically by aggregating the Amount fields recorded in the transaction ledger. This approach upholds the reliability and auditability essential for financial applications. Data security is paramount; measures including data encryption at rest, secure authentication, and granular user access controls must be implemented to ensure personal financial records remain private and safe. The system must be compliant with strict governance postures, featuring built-in audit trails and privacy frameworks.
The conceptual schema supports the core functions of the agent:
Table: Financial Data Persistence Schema (Conceptual)

Table Name
Key Fields
Purpose
TR_TRANSACTIONS
TransactionID (PK), MerchantID (FK), Amount (decimal), TransactionDate (timestamp), CategoryID (FK), ReferenceID
Stores atomic financial events for historical reporting, serving as the immutable ledger source.17
TR_EVENTS
EventID (PK), MerchantID (FK), CalendarID (External Ref), DeadlineType, DateDue, Status
Stores meta-data linkage to scheduled events and critical business deadlines, supporting synchronization with the calendar server.
TR_FORECASTS
MerchantID (FK), Month, ForecastAmount
Supports long-term financial forecasting and planning analysis by storing time-series data for aggregation reports.18

2.2.2 Secure Context Retrieval (The RAG-Database Barrier)

A critical architectural consideration is the absolute separation of the Large Language Model core from the secure financial database. The LLM core must not have direct access to database credentials or the raw SQL environment. The FinancialDB Adapter (an MCP Server) serves as a secure firewall, enforcing this separation.
Historical context retrieval is executed via a highly governed form of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). The Function Calling (FC) parameters generated by the LLM are passed to the MCP Server. The server, in a secure environment, uses these parameters to generate highly specific, sanitized SQL queries. Only the structured, pre-processed query results (e.g., aggregated reports like "Q2 Revenue: 150,000 ETB" or a list of overdue invoices) are injected back into the LLM context for final response generation. This process ensures maximum security, preventing prompt injection attacks from leading to unauthorized database execution and upholding data governance standards.

2.3 The Core Logic: Function Calling (FC) and Tool Definition
Function Calling (FC), also known as tool use or API calling, is the technique that grants the Large Language Model the ability to reliably interact with external tools and systems.
2.3.1 FC as the Intent Generation Layer
Function Calling acts as the mechanism that translates the user’s natural language intent into a structured, executable JSON format. When a user prompt requires an external action (e.g., fetching data or creating an event), the LLM analyzes the request based on the available function schemas provided by the application. If function calling is deemed necessary, the LLM selects the correct function and responds with a JSON dictionary containing the function name and its required input arguments.
This process is invaluable for reliability. By forcing the LLM to output structured data via the function schema, the non-deterministic nature often associated with LLMs is significantly constrained when performing critical actions. This yields a much more reliable operational application compared to relying on pure open-ended text generation for system commands.
2.3.2 Defining Function Schemas
The application must transmit rigorous function definitions and their input schemas to the LLM. For instance, the schema for a calendar function would clearly define required arguments like date, title, and attendees. This training ensures the LLM generates precise and properly extracted arguments for real-world execution.
2.4 The Orchestration Layer: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is the open standard developed to provide AI agents with a simple, standardized, and consistent method for connecting with and utilizing external tools and services.
2.4.1 MCP for Standardized Execution and State Management
While Function Calling excels at intent detection, MCP excels at standardized execution, tool discovery, and reliable state management across multi-step processes. MCP allows the AI agent to transition from merely being "smart" to becoming "actually useful" by performing complex, multi-step tasks in the real world, such as retrieving data, processing it, and then acting on the result.
The MCP architecture comprises several key components that facilitate communication and action:
    • MCP Host and Client: The AI-powered application (the MFA conversational core) contains the LLM (Host) and the MCP Client. The Client handles the back-and-forth communication, packaging requests and receiving results.
    • MCP Servers: These specialized adapters, such as the FinancialDB Adapter, translate the AI’s standardized request into the native commands the specific tool understands (e.g., an SQL query, a Google API call). They manage tool discovery, interpret commands, format results for the AI, and handle errors.
    • The MCP Protocol: Communication between the Client and Servers is standardized, often utilizing JSON-RPC 2.0 messages over a transport layer. This consistency ensures that an AI agent can reliably connect with and understand how to use a new tool even if it has never encountered that specific server before.
2.4.2 MCP and Persistent Context Maintenance
MCP is essential for maintaining persistent context during complex workflows. By defining a consistent structure for messages, actions, and results, the MCP Protocol ensures that the output from one tool action is immediately usable and understandable as context for the next action. For multi-step interactions where maintaining context over time is critical, MCP offers a superior structure compared to simple function calling loops.
2.5 Hybrid Orchestration Model: Integration of MCP and Function Calling
The MFA utilizes a hybrid orchestration model, leveraging the strengths of Function Calling for high-precision intent translation and the Model Context Protocol for secure, reliable, and standardized execution and state management.
The integration follows a clear, secure workflow designed to preserve the integrity of financial data while maximizing the agent’s autonomy:
    1. Intent Generation (FC): The user submits a prompt (e.g., "What was my total revenue last month, and when is the next tax deadline?"). The LLM core, trained on the available function schemas, generates the structured JSON indicating the required tool(s) and their parameters.
    2. Request Packaging and Routing (MCP Client): The application intercepts the FC JSON output. The MCP Client uses the function name (e.g., generate_summary) to identify the target MCP Server (e.g., FinancialDB Adapter). It then converts the function arguments into a standardized MCP request payload using JSON-RPC 2.0.
    3. Action Execution (MCP Server): The designated MCP Server receives the request. It translates the standardized MCP command into a secure, native API call or database query. The execution occurs within the server's controlled, secure environment (e.g., utilizing OAuth 2.0 for Calendar access).
    4. Persistent Context Maintenance and Chaining: The MCP Server executes the action and returns the result (e.g., the structured financial report data or a scheduling confirmation) in a standardized MCP response format. This response is then injected back into the LLM’s conversation history/prompt by the MCP Host. This returned output acts as the persistent context necessary for the LLM to decide on its next action. For a multi-step request, the LLM analyzes the result ("Q2 Revenue is X") and then generates a second Function Call to the Calendar Manager (e.g., "Schedule review meeting for next Tuesday"), completing the chain.
This hybrid approach ensures that the sophisticated, secure execution logic resides outside the non-deterministic LLM core, which only handles the linguistic interpretation and overall task flow.
Table: MCP Tools and Function Call Mapping

MCP Server/Tool
Underlying API/Data Source
Primary Function Call(s) (FC)
Role in Context Maintenance
FinancialDB Adapter
Internal Secure Database (PostgreSQL/SQL)
query_transactions, generate_summary
Provides historical financial context; acts as the secure RAG execution engine, returning structured summaries.
Google Calendar Server
Google Calendar API (OAuth 2.0)
calendar_find_events, calendar_create_event
Manages persistent event/schedule context; handles scheduling and availability analysis.7
Currency Service
Exchange Rate API (e.g., ExchangeRate-API)
get_live_fx_rate
Provides real-time market context; essential for dynamic conversion during transactions or reporting.

3. SERVICE INTEGRATION AND API SPECIFICATIONS
3.1 Financial Reporting Tool Integration

The FinancialDB Adapter MCP Server is the gateway to the secure transaction database. Its integration must prioritize data security and structured output.
A robust ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) pipeline is required to handle the initial data migration and ensure continuous, secure syncing of merchant transaction data into the persistent data schema. The reporting engine within the MCP Server operates solely through parameterized database queries, which are essential for security. These queries, triggered by FC commands like generate_summary(timeframe, categories), prevent the risk of SQL injection by ensuring that user-provided inputs are treated strictly as query parameters, never as executable code. This server guarantees that the query results are pre-processed and aggregated into structured JSON summaries before being returned to the LLM core, reducing the risk of data leakage and simplifying the final response generation.
3.2 Real-Time Currency Exchange API Integration
The capacity for real-time currency conversion is vital for merchants engaged in international commerce or dealing with fluctuating pricing models.
3.2.1 API Selection and Reliability
The Currency Service MCP Server will integrate with a free, yet commercially reliable, Foreign Exchange API. Providers such as ExchangeRate-API or ExchangeRatesAPI offer reliable data for over 160 currencies, with rates updated frequently (typically every 60 minutes), making them suitable for real-time merchant operations. Their exceptional uptime and dedicated support record over many years ensure the reliability required for a production-grade financial agent.
3.2.2 Integration Mechanism
The Currency Service MCP Server abstracts the external API specifics. The Function Calling definition (get_live_fx_rate) is designed to be simple, requiring only the amount, base currency, and target currency. The MCP Server handles the complex tasks of secure HTTP request execution, authentication, and robust error management. This modularity ensures that if the underlying FX API needs to be replaced in the future, only the Currency Service MCP Server requires modification, not the core LLM logic or the Function Calling schema.

3.3 Google Calendar Event Management Integration
The Google Calendar integration transforms the agent into a proactive operational assistant, allowing it to manage deadlines derived from financial reports or user instructions.
3.3.1 Security and Authorization
Integration with Google Calendar requires adherence to Google’s stringent security protocols, particularly the use of OAuth 2.0 for secure authorization. The project must follow the setup procedures outlined in the Google Calendar API documentation, managing the
credentials.json file securely within the Google Calendar Server MCP. This ensures that the LLM core never handles the sensitive authentication credentials, further maintaining security and governance.

3.3.2 Advanced Feature Implementation

The CalendarManager MCP Server exposes core CRUD functionality, but is enhanced to support sophisticated scheduling requests:
    • Detailed Event Creation: For complex meeting scenarios, the agent must ensure that if the LLM recognizes the event as a meeting (e.g., by detecting keywords like "call" or "meet"), the API request to Google Calendar includes the parameter conferenceDataVersion=1. This crucial detail automatically generates a Google Meet link for the scheduled event, enhancing workflow automation.
    • Proactive Analysis: The server leverages the API's Find Events and busyness analysis capabilities. This allows the agent to answer sophisticated planning requests that require checking the merchant's existing calendar context (e.g., "Am I free next Tuesday at 2 PM to review the quarterly revenue report?"). This sophisticated contextual awareness is managed entirely by the secure MCP server and fed back to the LLM as structured availability data.

4. METHODOLOGY
4.1 Requirement Elicitation and Validation (Agile/Iterative)

The project will initiate with a focused requirement gathering effort to ensure the final product meets the specific needs of general merchants. Non-negotiable constraints, specifically security and compliance requirements related to financial data encryption and access controls, will be defined first. Requirements for the reporting module (e.g., aggregation levels, categorization needs) and calendar integration (e.g., required deadline types, synchronization frequency) will be elicited through two mechanisms:
    1. Structured Interviews: Conducting detailed, structured interviews with a panel of five anchor merchants to establish deep operational needs.
    2. Questionnaires: Distributing detailed questionnaires to a broader population of Small-to-Medium Businesses (N=50) to validate the commonality and specificity of identified problems.
This methodical approach is designed to produce a clearly defined set of requirements, providing confidence that the subsequent design and implementation phases are targeted accurately.

4.2 Design Phase (Architecture and Data Modeling)

The design phase is crucial for establishing the systemic constraints that will guide implementation.

4.2.1 Architecture Definition and Constraint Management

The design will produce detailed architecture diagrams that explicitly illustrate the data flow, highlighting the boundary between the MCP Host, the MCP Client, and the secure MCP Servers. The primary focus for this phase is ensuring that design choices reflect core project constraints:
    • Maintainability: Achieved via modular, separated MCP servers, allowing for independent updates to tool integrations without impacting the core LLM logic.
    • Security: Achieved via shielded database access, using the MCP Adapter as the exclusive, authorized gateway, preventing direct LLM access to sensitive credentials.
4.2.2 Data Modeling
The Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) for the persistence layer will be finalized. This model must support complex financial operations, ensuring the schema facilitates both detailed historical transaction retrieval and time-based aggregation queries required for reporting and basic forecasting.
4.3 Implementation Tools and Frameworks
The implementation will rely on modern, secure, and robust technology stacks to guarantee high reliability:
    • LLM Core: Selection of an appropriate high-performance Large Language Model (e.g., GPT-4 or Claude) will be based on its robust Function Calling capabilities and high-quality reasoning performance required for multi-step task chaining.
    • Backend and MCP Servers: The servers will be built using Python 3.10+ and the FastAPI framework for high-speed API development. Specialized MCP SDKs (or similar open-source libraries for standardized protocol implementation) will be employed for rapid development of the individual MCP Servers and JSON-RPC 2.0 communication.
    • Integration Toolkits: Established libraries, such as those within the langchain-google-community package, will be leveraged to expedite secure API integration for services like Google Calendar, utilizing established methods for credential handling and API interaction.
4.4 Testing Strategy
Testing will be comprehensive, focusing specifically on the unique challenges presented by autonomous agent architecture.
    • Reliability Testing: Dedicated testing cycles will target edge cases in Function Calling. This ensures the LLM correctly and reliably parses ambiguous or complex natural language requests into the precise, structured JSON required for tool execution. This minimizes the risk of system failure due to non-deterministic intent interpretation.
    • Chaining Integrity Testing: This is a critical assessment of the MCP's functionality. Test cases will explicitly evaluate multi-step workflows (e.g., Query Report → Calculate FX → Schedule Event) to confirm that the MCP response data is securely and correctly injected into the LLM’s context and accurately interpreted for subsequent function calls. This validates the persistence of context across the system boundary.
    • Security Testing and Guardrails: Rigorous penetration testing will focus on the security perimeter, particularly the FinancialDB Adapter. This ensures that the Function Calling mechanism cannot be compromised via sophisticated prompt injection techniques designed to bypass security guardrails and lead to unauthorized SQL execution or data retrieval. Testing will confirm compliance with governance frameworks, including auditing capabilities.

5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN
5.1 Time Management Plan (Gant Chart)

A detailed Gant Chart will structure the 17-week plan, allocating 4 weeks for architecture and planning, 6 weeks for secure backend and persistence implementation, 3 weeks for dedicated MCP server development and external API integration, and 4 weeks for final system testing and LLM tuning. This sequential phasing ensures that development risks are addressed early.
5.2 Quality Management Plan
The project’s quality management plan focuses on mitigating risks associated with software reliability and operational costs. The decision to adopt the MCP standard is a deliberate measure to enable quality, as it mandates predictable and standardized tool interaction, inherently improving the quality of integration.
Code quality metrics and secure coding standards will be rigorously enforced for all MCP server code, recognizing that these components are mission-critical for reliable execution of financial operations. Acceptance testing will explicitly include validation of the accuracy of generated financial reports, the integrity of data extraction, and the seamless synchronization of calendar events. Furthermore, the operational plan includes continuous monitoring of LLM token usage to proactively manage and reduce ongoing operational costs.
5.3 Communication Management Plan
A structured communication plan is essential for maintaining alignment across internal development, advisory teams, and external stakeholders. This plan defines the principles for reporting, distribution, and meeting structures throughout the project life cycle.
Table: Communication Management Plan
Type of Communication
Method / Tool
Frequency/Schedule
Information
Participants / Responsibles
Internal Communication: Project Meetings
Teleconference (Video/Chat)
Weekly (Bi-Weekly Tech Deep Dive)
Project status, technical blockers, risk mitigation strategies (especially regarding MCP/FC reliability and security).
Project Manager, Technical Leads, Development Team
Sharing of project data
Secure Project Server (Version Control)
Continuous
All source code, design specifications, test results, and LLM prompt logs.
Project Mgr(s), Project Team Members
Milestone Meetings
Physical/Teleconference
Before key milestones (W4, W9, W13, W17)
Project status and confirmation of completion against specific objectives (e.g., DB persistence complete, MCP core functional).
Project Mgr, Technical Advisor, Steering Committee (SteCo)
External Communication and Reporting: Project Report
Confidential Digital Report
Monthly
Budget tracking, high-level technical progress summary, and forecast adjustment.
Project Manager, SteCo

APPENDIX

Detailed Appendices will contain supplementary material too technical or extensive for the main body of the proposal.
Detailed Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD)
A full schematic of the secure persistence layer will be included, detailing the relationships between the TR_MERCHANTS, TR_TRANSACTIONS, and TR_EVENTS tables, illustrating foreign key constraints and indexing strategies necessary for high-performance query aggregation.
MCP Protocol Specification
Examples of the standardized JSON-RPC 2.0 requests and expected responses for chained operations will be provided. This documentation will formally demonstrate the standardized context passing between the FinancialDB Adapter and the CalendarManager Server, ensuring that all developers understand the rigid communication structure enforced by the Model Context Protocol.

develop this using django also not that build a great ui for this